Hello.
I'm Derek Walker, I'm the pastor of the Oxford Bible Church,
And it's really good to be with you in the church without wars.
Especially at this special time.
When we remember
The wonderful salvation that Jesus,
Bought for us on the cross.
And his death and resurrection.
and I want to really
Share with you.
About the wonders of the Cross and the wonders of the salvation.
that Jesus
purchased for us on the cross and let's just think about
What he did.
Just to set the scene, I'd like to say that if Jesus spent
Six hours on the cross.
Say from nine o'clock in the morning to noon, those first three hours he was actually the burnt offering. He was offering up his righteousness to God as a sweet-smelling offering.
offering to God his whole perfect human life that righteousness
Is offered up to God in order to be given to us.
But then at noon something amazing happened, because suddenly the sun was blotted out.
In fact, all everything was blotted out.
and.
Darkness fell.
And God was showing by a sign in the heaven,
That as the sun.
Was being blotted out in the sky, so Christ, the son of righteousness,
Was, as it were, being made.
Dark with our sin.
and that's when Jesus became the sin offering that's when he took our sin and that's when he cried out my god my god why have you forsaken me
And for the next three hours he was asked in offering, he took out a sin.
He took the punishment on our sin.
That we deserved.
And he paid the penalty in full for our sin.
And so at the end
100% of those three hours just before he gave up his spirit, he cried out to Telestai, which means it is finished, which means I've paid the price.
price in full.
Praise God for Jesus. So he took our sin, our sin, our sin, our sin, our sin, our
And he also,
Gave us his righteousness.
He made that great exchange on the cross.
But today I want to talk about what Jesus did on the cross from three aspects.
Just to show how perfect
what he did on the cross was. And there are three
Big woods.
And
Jesus did all these three things together.
Now, first word I want to talk about is redemption.
Redemption has the meaning of the payment of a ransom.
To set someone free.
so if you were kidnapped for instance you you paid there's a payment of a ransom to set you free.
The Bible says that we were slaves of sin.
We were under the power of sin, and we were under the power of the kingdom of darkness.
And these things had a claim on us.
And Jesus came along
To redeem us,
Which means he purchased us.
With a price, that price is the precious blood of Jesus, and through that purchase he cancelled all the claims of sin against her.
against us, praise God, all the claims of the enemy against us. He redeemed us from sin. He redeemed us from the curse. He redeemed us from the hand of the enemy.
Praise God. By the payment of a ransom price. that's what redemption means.
and he purchased us for God.
So we are free now. sin has no longer any claim on us.
And now we are free to belong to God.
We actually are purchased for God now.
We belong to God.
Hallelujah. And Revelation five nine,
Let's just read that.
and these are this is the church in heaven singing you are worthy to take the scroll
And open its seals, for you were slain, and you have redeemed us, or literally you have purchased us to God by your blood.
Out of every tribe and tongue and people and nation.
You've been purchased by the blood of Jesus, so you don't belong to the enemy any more. You don't belong to sin any more. you belong to God.
Hallelujah!
He's created you, He's redeemed you, you belong to Him and therefore you owe Him your surrender and your obedience.
And so Jesus achieved a perfect redemption for us, and that is the salvation, as it were,
As Sin would, Sin would, he cancelled the claims of sin against you.
the second word i'd like to tell you about is what the self the godward aspect of our salvation.
And that's called propitiation.
Propitiation is
Is,, in fact,,
The major thing that needed to be sorted out, because what it means is that because we were sinners,
God's righteous anger, God's just,
Judgment.
God's wrath.
Was upon us.
John thirty.
3.36 says that if somebody rejects Christ, then
then the wrath of God is still upon them.
And will find its full expression in due course.
And so we were under the wrath of God as sinners. The Holy Just Judge must punish sin.
And that would be terrible.
But propitiation means that Jesus,
Through his blood,
He,
He took our sin on himself, and he took the punishment for our sin, and God's wrath was fully poured out.
upon Jesus and Jesus' sacrifice satisfied the wrath of God.
Which means now that God is propitiated, God is now free,
To forgive us and to bless us with every spiritual blessing.
Praise God, because justice has been satisfied. And this is a wonderful word. And one picture of propitiation,
Is actually Noah's flood.
Because
In those flood, the picture of Christ is the ark.
And the ark,
Was wood.
Which was a picture of Christ's humanity, but it was also pitched with pitched. It would have been covered with this red resin that made it waterproof.
And then the Gospel would be preached that judgment is coming, but you can be saved by going into the ark, if those who believed went into the ark.
And then as the flood waters came down,
Those who were in the ark were safe because,
As it were, the ark itself took the judgment.
And the word for for the pitch is the word atonement.
So, and that's a picture of the atonement of Christ that all the judgment,
Of God.
Came down,
On the ark.
and the believers who were inside were safe. And so if you are in Christ, you are in
The place of salvation, Jesus took all the judgment on himself.
So that you could come through
Into a new life and
and afterwards they had a covenant.
God made a covenant with Noah
And of course the rainbow
Was the symbol?
Of propitiation.
That God's wrath had been poured out,
And now they were under the multifaceted grace of God.
And there's a wonderful verse, verses in Isaiah 54, that talk about Christ's salvation,
Um,
using the picture of Noah
Because in Isaiah 53,
Of course, is the wonderful chapter,
That describes Jesus dying on the cross for our sins and bearing our sins.
Then Isaiah fifty four, Verse seven, let's read from there. For a mere moment, God says, I've forsaken you.
Thus God's anger was against us.
But with great mercies, I will gather you. So what happened to change God's heart from anger?
To mercy.
With a little wrath, I hid my face from you for a moment, but with everlasting kindness I will have mercy on you, says the Lord, your redeemer. It's because of the payment of.
Of a price
First nine
For this is like the waters of Noah to me.
See the analogy of Noah, for as I swore that the waters of Noah would no longer cover the earth, so I have sworn that I will not be angry with you, nor.
You no rebuke you.
So, in other words,, just like Noah,
Because God's wrath was poured out on Christ,
Now God says, I will be angry with you no more.
because
I have been propitiated.
My...
Anger, my just anger has been satisfied.
So I will be angry with you no more.
He says, for the mountains will depart, Verse ten, and the hills be removed. But my kindness, that's literally my covenant love.
But covenant kindness will not depart from you, nor shall my covenant of peace be removed, says the Lord, who has mercy.
on you.
Praise God. So because of propitiation, now we are under God's covenant love.
Forever. thank God for Jesus, who took the wrath of God for our sins. he made propitiation for us on the cross.
He redeemed us,
From sin,
And he propitiated God's justice for us. And the final word I want to, and the other picture of propitiation,
Is the mercy seat in the Ark of the Covenant? That's a picture of the throne of God, but the worst mercy seat literally means the place of propitiation.
And so God's anger would have broken out against Israel, but once a year on the day of atonement, the blood.
Of the, the sin offering was placed on the ark.
On that throne and that that blood.
Was a propitiation.
It was the place of propitiation which released God's mercy, because God's justice was now satisfied. Now God was propitiated, and now mercy and grace were.
Would flow from his throne.
And it's interesting that in the throne of Heaven, which is called a throne of grace,
Praise God, there's a rainbow if you go to Revelation.
Chapter four, you'll see that there's a rainbow radiating out from the throne because.
The blood has been put on the mercy seat. When Jesus ascended, he put his blood on the mercy seat, and propitiation has been made. So now it's a.
A throne of grace.
And there's this wonderful rainbow all around the throne of God in heaven.
which represents the propitiation for our sins. The final
Word I want to share with you is reconciliation.
So if redemption is the salvation sin would,
Cancelling the claims of sin over us,
And if propitiation is the salvation,
The Godward aspect of our salvation,
There's a third one, which is the manward aspect of our salvation, which is called reconciliation.
This
This essentially means that
Yes.
This is a different issue because man now is disconnected from God, because man is in a state of sin,
But God is in a state of righteousness, absolute righteousness, and that means there's a total disconnect, a difference between man and God. So we are.
we are unconnected to God.
and what we need is the life of God to come into us to save us.
But
that the
That seems impossible.
But Jesus gave a reconciliation on the cross.
And this word reconciliation in the Greek simply means exchange.
Jesus made a great exchange on the cross. He took our sin,
And in return, he gave us his righteousness. that's the great exchange. And when he, that is called the reconciliation,
He did what was necessary to remove the difference between us and God. So when you accept Christ,
You accept that transaction
and immediately your sins are omitted, and you are given the righteousness of Christ. So now you are righteous, God is righteous, you are reconnected
connected to God and now you can be saved by his life.
Praise God. it's as if you were a billion pounds in debt, but but God set up this transaction to.
Cancel your debt,
But also give you a billion pounds.
The a great exchange.
He took your debt, and he gave you riches.
And all you had to do is accept
His offer,
and God
Made it happen.
and the moment you accepted Christ, praise God, the great exchange happened in you. We read about this also in Romans.
Chapter five.
He talks about the great exchange that took place
Um,
And he says, because we've received the reconciliation,
We will then be saved by
His life.
Verse, let's go. Verse eight, for God demonstrates Romans five, eight, for God demonstrates his own love toward us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us much more.
Shmuel now then, having been justified by his blood, said,
What he's saying is,
That when you accept the reconciliation,
You know.
Receive his righteousness, and now you're justified. God declares you righteous in his sight.
Now that you have been justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him.
For if while we were enemies, we were.
When we were enemies, we were reconciled to God through the death of his son, much more now having been reconciled, once you've accepted what Jesus has done,
We shall be saved by his life.
Praise God. Praise God.
And so reconciliation means
That you now
have accepted what Jesus has done.
He's taken your sin and he's given you his righteousness. Now you are justified by faith.
Now you are connected to the life of God and God can now change you.
God can sanctify you.
Praise God, you will be saved by his life.
Praise God. And that's the reconciliation. God changes you from sin to righteousness.
And you can read more about that in 2 Corinthians chapter 5, the last half of that chapter.
Praise God that Jesus gave us a perfect salvation on the cross. He covered every angle, everything that needed dealing with. Jesus did it. Thank you.
Thank God for Jesus. He gave us a perfect propitiation that God can be merciful to us. He gave us a perfect redemption, cancelling the claims of sin.
and he gave us a perfect reconciliation that we are now reconnected to God.
Praise God for Jesus. Amen.